Create incident.io Incidents Using Synced Webhooks (#2127)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/guides/all/create-incident-io-incident.md

---
displayed_sidebar: null
description: Learn how to create an incident.io incident in Port, ensuring timely resolution and effective incident management.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Create an incident.io Incident

## Overview
This guide will help you implement a self-service action in Port that allows you to create incident.io incidents directly from Port using **synced webhooks**.
This functionality streamlines incident management by enabling users to create incidents without leaving Port.

## Prerequisites

- Complete the [onboarding process](/getting-started/overview).
- Access to your incident.io organization with permissions to manage incidents.

## Set up data model

You will need to manually create a blueprint for the incident.io incidents.  

> <h3>Create the incident.io incident blueprint</h3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create an incident.io incident blueprint
```

1. Go to your [Builder](https://app.getport.io/settings/data-model) page.
2. Click on `+ Blueprint`.

> 3. Click on the `{...}` button in the top right corner, and choose "Edit JSON".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click on the `{...}` button in the top right corner, and choose `Edit JSON`.
```

            "format": "date-time"
        },
        "description": {
            "title": "Description",
            "type": "string"
        },
        "visibility": {
            "type": "string",
            "title": "Visibility",
            "enum": [
            "public",
            "private"
            ],
            "enumColors": {
            "public": "darkGray",
            "private": "darkGray"
            }
        },
        "status": {
            "type": "string",
            "title": "Status",
            "enum": [
            "Investigating",
            "Fixing",
            "Monitoring",
            "Closed",
            "Resolved",
            "Merged"
            ],
            "enumColors": {
            "Investigating": "red",
            "Fixing": "yellow",
            "Monitoring": "purple",
            "Closed": "darkGray",
            "Resolved": "green",
            "Merged": "green"
            }
        }
        },
        "required": []
    },
    "mirrorProperties": {},
    "calculationProperties": {},
    "aggregationProperties": {},
    "relations": {}
    }
    ```
    </details>

5. Click "Save" to create the blueprint.

## Implementation

> You can create incident.io incidents by leveraging Port's **synced webhooks** and **secrets** to directly interact with incident.io's API. This method simplifies the setup by handling everything within Port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create incident.io incidents by leveraging Port's **synced webhooks** and **secrets** to directly interact with incident.io's API.
```

> <h3>Add Port secrets</h3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add Port secrets
```

To add these secrets to your portal:

1. Click on the `...` button in the top right corner of your Port application.

2. Click on **Credentials**.

3. Click on the `Secrets` tab.

4. Click on `+ Secret` and add the following secrets:

>     - `INCIDENT_IO_API_KEY`: Your [incident.io API key](https://app.incident.io/settings/api-keys)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `INCIDENT_IO_API_KEY`: Your [incident.io API key](https://app.incident.io/settings/api-keys).
```

> <h3> Set up self-service action </h3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set up self-service action
```

> We will create a self-service action to handle creating incident.io incidents using webhooks.
> To create a self-service action follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's define a self-service action that is used to create an incident.io incident:
```

        },
        "body": {
        "name": "{{.inputs.name}}",
        "severity_id": "{{ if .inputs.severity == \"Minor\" then \"01J53A3A1FNEEQKFGSDKETN6DJ\" elif .inputs.severity == \"Major\" then \"01J53A3A1F2RCGSQQQNA6NJ5CY\" elif .inputs.severity == \"Critical\" then \"01J53A3A1FGWNRNK1TMK9CWJJW\" else \"01J53A3A1FNEEQKFGSDKETN6DJ\" end }}",
        "summary": "{{.inputs.description}}",
        "visibility": "{{.inputs.visibility}}",
        "idempotency_key": "{{ now | tostring | @base64 }}"
        }
    },
    "requiredApproval": false
    }
    ```
    :::tip Extending Incident Severity Levels
    By default, incident.io provides three severity levels: `Minor`, `Major`, and `Critical`. However, your organization may have additional severity levels. To include them, use the [List Severity API](https://api-docs.incident.io/tag/Severities-V1#operation/Severities%20V1_List) to fetch all available severity levels. Then, update the `severity_id` values in the request body to match the correct IDs from the API response.
    :::
    </details>

5. Click `Save`.

Now you should see the `Create incident.io Incident (Webhook)` action in the self-service page. 🎉

> <h3> Create an automation to upsert entity in port </h3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create an automation to update your catalog
```
